---
layout: post
title: NPR API
---

Within the last year, NPR has spent considerable time developing an API in an effort to ["become the Pandora of online news"](http://www.slate.com/blogs/future_tense/2015/05/11/npr_one_player_phase_2_of_npr_s_plan_to_become_the_pandora_of_news.html); you can even find a [Codecademy course](https://www.codecademy.com/en/tracks/npr) on how to use their API. The course was a bit prescriptive and pretty long, so if you have any experience with web development at all, it is much easier to navigate NPR's documentation to learn more about the API. As a complete API novice and NPR fan myself, I thought I would give their API a shot for a quick project called NPR Roulette.

Barring one or two sticky spots, it was actually quite simple to integrate a basic query to NPR's database to pull back a story from one of their 134 topics. The first trip-up was actually using the correct API. It turns out that NPR has quite a few different APIs, and I found myself on the NPR One API, which was a bit more complicated than the simple querying API that I was looking for. To sign up for any of NPR's API keys, all you have to do is sign up for an NPR account and request a key for the desired API key

The second snag involved using JQuery's $.get() method on the API call to get the data in my Backbone app. I wanted the data to come back in a JSON format, but if I added that format request to the url, escape characters were triggered and I wasn't able to get any information back. This was a fairly simple fix once I realized this was the case. To get around it, I wrote out the $ajax GET request, which, although a little longer, worked perfectly. I was able to get back a JSON object of a full list of stories from any of NPR's 134 topics.

NPR's querying API is a great tool for simple queries to NPR's considerable database. I am seriously considering revisiting their APIs in the future, but that's after I make my d3 graphing calculator.
